In the last lecture you learned about date time objects, these objects represent
a point in time. In a date time module, we also have a
class called time delta, which represents a duration.
So let's import timedelta from here.
Now when we subtract these two dates, you get a time delta object.
So let's set duration to dt2-dt1.
And print it on the terminal,
so here is the difference between these two date times.
Now this time delta object has a few interesting attributes, we have
duration.days let's print that on the terminal,
and then label for clarity, you also
have seconds let's take a look,
and run the program, so we have
324 days, and 46000 seconds.
So this 46,000 represents this
value. 12 hours and 58 minutes is equivalent to
46000 seconds. We also have a method
called total seconds. This is a method
not an attribute. Let's see what this returns.
So this value you see here is the total
duration represented as seconds. So if you
calculate the number of seconds in 324 days and 4 hours
and 59 minutes we get this value.
So these are a few interesting members of the time delta class.
So in case you're wondering why we don't have month or year here,
the reason is that we can have a varying amount of time in a month or in a year,
that's why we only have days, seconds and microseconds.
Now we can also add a time delta object to a date time object,
let me show you. So for our first date time,
I'm going to add the time delta of warn date. Now if
we print this 1, we get,
january the second. And the difference is
323 days, however, someone who is looking at this code may
not be quite sure what this 1 here represents. Is it
1 day 1 hour, 1 second? So it's better to use keyword arguments
here, for clarity. Let's set days to 1.
We can also set seconds to 1000.
Now, let's run the program, so
that gives us 16 minutes after January the 2nd.